.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\" 
.\" .
.\" .
.TH "hedgewars" "6" "" "hedgewars" ""
.SH "NAME"
Hedgewars \- a free turn based strategy game
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.
.B hedgewars
[\fIOPTION\fR...]
[\fICONNECTSTRING\fR]
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Each player controls a team of several hedgehogs. During the course of the game, players take turns with one of their hedgehogs. They then use whatever tools and weapons are available to attack and kill the opponents' hedgehogs, thereby winning the game. Hedgehogs may move around the terrain in a variety of ways, normally by walking and jumping but also by using particular tools such as the "Rope" or "Parachute", to move to otherwise inaccessible areas. Each turn is time\-limited to ensure that players do not hold up the game with excessive thinking or moving.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.
.TP 
\fB\-\-help\fR
Displays help and exits
.TP
\fB\-\-config-dir=PATH\fR
Custom path for configuration data and user data
.TP
\fB\-\-data-dir=PATH\fR
Custom path to the game data folder
.SH "CONNECTSTRING"
.
If a CONNECTSTRING (e.g. "hwplay://netserver.hedgewars.org") is supplied, then hedgewars will try to connect to the specified destination on start.
.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.
Copyright \(co 2004\-2018 Andrey Korotaev, Igor Ulyanov
.br 
This is Free Software; this software is licensed under the GPL version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.
