share/hedgewars/Data/Names/README.md, before:

# Hedgewars random name lists
The directory Data/Names contains random hog and team names and
hat sets for themed teams.

In this file I'll explain the format of each of the files:

## `<Hat>.cfg`
Hat configuration file.
This file lists the random name list (without file name suffix), e.g.:

    generic
    nordic

and so on. Each list name must exist in this directory. When choosing
a random name for this hat, it will first randomly choose one of the
name lists, then choose a random name within that list.

`<Hat>` must be the name of a hat (without file name suffix) for which
to apply the random names, e.g. “Santa”.

If a hat does not have a config file, it will use the generic name list.

## `<name>.txt` =
This is a list of random hedgehog names, one name per line.
`<name>` is an identifier of your choice (except “types”).

## `generic.txt` ==
Works exactly like `<name>.txt`, but this file is also used as default for all
hats without a .cfg file.

This file must be present at all costs!

## `types.txt` =
This contains themed team names and hat sets.
It works like this:

For each team:

* First comes a list of possible team names for a team type.
* Then comes a separator line with 5 equals signs (“=====”).
* Then comes a list of hat names with out file name suffix.
* Each hog of this team gets a random hat of this list. Repeat a hat name to
  jack up its probability.

Each team is again separated by a separator line.

At the end of the final team, this line must be written (without the spaces):

    *END*

Everything after that will be ignored.

This file must be present at all costs!

Commit message:

Use generic team names for non-themed random teams; add a bunch of more random team names
First team name list in types.ini are considered to be generic. If the random team
generator decides to use hats not taken from types.ini, it only uses a generic team
name, not one of the other themed team names.

share/hedgewars/Data/Names/README.md, after:

# Hedgewars random name lists
The directory Data/Names contains random hog and team names and
hat sets for themed teams.

In this file I'll explain the format of each of the files:

## `<Hat>.cfg`
Hat configuration file.
This file lists the random name list (without file name suffix), e.g.:

    generic
    nordic

and so on. Each list name must exist in this directory. When choosing
a random name for this hat, it will first randomly choose one of the
name lists, then choose a random name within that list.

`<Hat>` must be the name of a hat (without file name suffix) for which
to apply the random names, e.g. “Santa”.

If a hat does not have a config file, it will use the generic name list.

## `<name>.txt` =
This is a list of random hedgehog names, one name per line.
`<name>` is an identifier of your choice (except “types”).

## `generic.txt` ==
Works exactly like `<name>.txt`, but this file is also used as default for all
hats without a .cfg file.

This file must be present at all costs!

## `types.txt` =
This contains themed team names and hat sets.
It works like this:

For each team:

* First comes a list of possible team names for a team type.
* Then comes a separator line with 5 equals signs (“=====”).
* Then comes a list of hat names with out file name suffix.
* Each hog of this team gets a random hat of this list. Repeat a hat name to
  jack up its probability.

Each team is again separated by a separator line.

At the end of the final team, this line must be written (without the spaces):

    *END*

Everything after that will be ignored.

The first team entry is special: The team names of this entry are considered
to be generic and fit (more or less) and don't have any particular theme.

This file must be present at all costs!
